README.md, before:

# GrowthBook Python SDK

Powerful Feature flagging and A/B testing for Python apps.

![Build Status](https://github.com/growthbook/growthbook-python/workflows/Build/badge.svg)

-  **No external dependencies**
-  **Lightweight and fast**
-  **No HTTP requests** everything is defined and evaluated locally
-  Python 3.6+
-  100% test coverage
-  Flexible **targeting**
-  **Use your existing event tracking** (GA, Segment, Mixpanel, custom)
-  **Remote configuration** to change feature flags without deploying new code

## Installation

`pip install growthbook` (recommended) or copy `growthbook.py` into your project

## Quick Usage

```python
import requests
from growthbook import GrowthBook


# We recommend using a db or cache layer in production
apiResp = requests.get("https://cdn.growthbook.io/api/features/MY_API_KEY")
features = apiResp.json()["features"]

# User attributes for targeting and experimentation
attributes = {
  "id": "123",
  "customUserAttribute": "foo"
}

def on_experiment_viewed(experiment, result):
  # Use whatever event tracking system you want
  analytics.track(attributes["id"], "Experiment Viewed", {
    'experimentId': experiment.key,
    'variationId': result.variationId
  })

# Create a GrowthBook instance
gb = GrowthBook(
  attributes = attributes,
  features = features,
  trackingCallback = on_experiment_viewed
)

# Simple on/off feature gating
if gb.isOn("my-feature"):
  print("My feature is on!")

# Get the value of a feature with a fallback
color = gb.getFeatureValue("button-color-feature", "blue")
```

## GrowthBook class

The GrowthBook constructor has the following parameters:

-  **enabled** (`bool`) - Flag to globally disable all experiments. Default true.
-  **attributes** (`dict`) - Dictionary of user attributes that are used for targeting and to assign variations
-  **url** (`str`) - The URL of the current request (if applicable)
-  **features** (`dict`) - Feature definitions from the GrowthBook API
-  **forcedVariations** (`dict`) - Dictionary of forced experiment variations (used for QA)
-  **qaMode** (`boolean`) - If true, random assignment is disabled and only explicitly forced variations are used.
-  **trackingCallback** (`callable`) - A function that takes `experiment` and `result` as arguments.

There are also getter and setter methods for features and attributes if you need to update them later in the request:

```python
gb.setFeatures(gb.getFeatures())
gb.setAttributes(gb.getAttributes())
```

### Features

Defines all of the available features plus rules for how to assign values to users. Features are usually fetched from the GrowthBook API and persisted in cache or a database in production.

Feature definitions are defined in a JSON format. You can fetch them directly from the GrowthBook API:

```python
import requests

apiResp = requests.get("https://cdn.growthbook.io/api/features/MY_API_KEY")
features = apiResp.json()["features"]
```

Or, you can use a copy stored in your database or cache server instead:

```python
import json

json_string = '{"feature-1":{...},"feature-2":{...},...}'
features = json.loads(json_string)
```

We recommend using the db/cache approach for production.

### Attributes

You can specify attributes about the current user and request. These are used for two things:

1.  Feature targeting (e.g. paid users get one value, free users get another)
2.  Assigning persistent variations in A/B tests (e.g. user id "123" always gets variation B)

Attributes can be any JSON data type - boolean, integer, float, string, list, or dict.

```python
attributes = {
  'id': "123",
  'loggedIn': True,
  'age': 21.5,
  'tags': ["tag1", "tag2"],
  'account': {
    'age': 90
  ]
}
```

### Tracking Experiments

Any time an experiment is run to determine the value of a feature, you want to track that event in your analytics system.

You can use the `trackingCallback` option to do this:

```python
from growthbook import GrowthBook, Experiment, Result

def on_experiment_viewed(experiment: Experiment, result: Result):
  # Use whatever event tracking system you want
  analytics.track(attributes["id"], "Experiment Viewed", {
    'experimentId': experiment.key,
    'variationId': result.variationId
  })

gb = GrowthBook(
  trackingCallback = on_experiment_viewed
)
```

## Using Features

There are 3 main methods for interacting with features.

- `gb.isOn("feature-key")` returns true if the feature is on
- `gb.isOff("feature-key")` returns false if the feature is on
- `gb.getFeatureValue("feature-key", "default")` returns the value of the feature with a fallback


In addition, you can use `gb.evalFeature("feature-key")` to get back a `FeatureResult` object with the following properties:

- **value** - The JSON-decoded value of the feature (or `null` if not defined)
- **on** and **off** - The JSON-decoded value cast to booleans
- **source** - Why the value was assigned to the user. One of `unknownFeature`, `defaultValue`, `force`, or `experiment`
- **experiment** - Information about the experiment (if any) which was used to assign the value to the user
- **experimentResult** - The result of the experiment (if any) which was used to assign the value to the user


## Inline Experiments

Instead of declaring all features up-front and referencing them by ids in your code, you can also just run an experiment directly. This is done with the `gb->run` method:

```python
from growthbook import Experiment

exp = Experiment(
  key = "my-experiment", 
  variations = ["red", "blue", "green"]
)

# Either "red", "blue", or "green"
print(gb.run(exp).value)
```

As you can see, there are 2 required parameters for experiments, a string key, and an array of variations.  Variations can be any data type, not just strings.

There are a number of additional settings to control the experiment behavior:

-  **key** (`str`) - The globally unique tracking key for the experiment
-  **variations** (`any[]`) - The different variations to choose between
-  **weights** (`float[]`) - How to weight traffic between variations. Must add to 1.
-  **coverage** (`float`) - What percent of users should be included in the experiment (between 0 and 1, inclusive)
- **condition** (`dict`) - Targeting conditions
-  **force** (`int`) - All users included in the experiment will be forced into the specified variation index
-  **hashAttribute** (`string`) - What user attribute should be used to assign variations (defaults to "id")
-  **namespace** (`tuple[str,float,float]`) - Used to run mutually exclusive experiments.

Here's an example that uses all of them:

```python
exp = Experiment(
  key="my-test",
  # Variations can be a list of any data type
  variations=[0, 1],
  # Run a 40/60 experiment instead of the default even split (50/50)
  weights=[0.4, 0.6],
  # Only include 20% of users in the experiment
  coverage=0.2,
  # Targeting condition using a MongoDB-like syntax
  condition={
    'country': 'US',
    'browser': {
      '$in': ['chrome', 'firefox']
    }
  },
  # Use an alternate attribute for assigning variations (default is 'id')
  hashAttribute="sessionId",
  # Includes the first 50% of users in the "pricing" namespace
  # Another experiment with a non-overlapping range will be mutually exclusive (e.g. [0.5, 1])
  namespace=("pricing", 0, 0.5),
)
```

### Inline Experiment Return Value

A call to `run` returns a `Result` object with a few useful properties:

```python
result = gb.run(exp)

# If user is part of the experiment
print(result.inExperiment) # True or False

# The index of the assigned variation
print(result.variationId) # e.g. 0 or 1

# The value of the assigned variation
print(result.value) # e.g. "A" or "B"

# The user attribute used to assign a variation
print(result.hashAttribute) # "id"

# The value of that attribute
print(result.hashValue) # e.g. "123"
```

The `inExperiment` flag is only set to True if the user was randomly assigned a variation. If the user failed any targeting rules or was forced into a specific variation, this flag will be false.


### Example Experiments

3-way experiment with uneven variation weights:
```python
gb.run(Experiment(
  key = "3-way-uneven",
  variations = ["A","B","C"],
  weights = [0.5, 0.25, 0.25]
))
```

Slow rollout (10% of users who match the targeting condition):
```python
# User is marked as being in "qa" and "beta"
gb = GrowthBook(
  attributes = {
    "id": "123",
    "beta": True,
    "qa": True,
  },
)

gb.run(Experiment(
  key = "slow-rollout",
  variations = ["A", "B"],
  coverage = 0.1,
  condition = {
    'beta': True
  }
))
```

Complex variations
```python
result = gb.run(Experiment(
  key = "complex-variations",
  variations = [
    ("blue", "large"),
    ("green", "small")
  ],
))

# Either "blue,large" OR "green,small"
print(result.value[0] + "," + result.value[1])
```

Assign variations based on something other than user id
```python
gb = GrowthBook(
  attributes = {
    "id": "123",
    "company": "growthbook"
  }
)

# Users in the same company will always get the same variation
gb.run(Experiment(
  key = "by-company-id",
  variations = ["A", "B"],
  hashAttribute = "company"
))
```

### Django

For Django (and other web frameworks), we recommend adding a simple middleware where you instantiate the GrowthBook object

```python
from growthbook import GrowthBook

def growthbook_middleware(get_response):
    def middleware(request):
        request.gb = GrowthBook(
          # ...
        )
        response = get_response(request)

        request.gb.destroy() # Cleanup

        return response
    return middleware
```

Then, you can easily evaluate a feature (or run an inline experiment) in any of your views:

```python
def index(request):
    featureEnabled = request.gb.isOn("my-feature")
    # ...
```

Commit message:

Don't skip feature rules when experiment variation is forced (#2)

README.md, after:

# GrowthBook Python SDK

Powerful Feature flagging and A/B testing for Python apps.

![Build Status](https://github.com/growthbook/growthbook-python/workflows/Build/badge.svg)

-  **No external dependencies**
-  **Lightweight and fast**
-  **No HTTP requests** everything is defined and evaluated locally
-  Python 3.6+
-  100% test coverage
-  Flexible **targeting**
-  **Use your existing event tracking** (GA, Segment, Mixpanel, custom)
-  **Remote configuration** to change feature flags without deploying new code

## Installation

`pip install growthbook` (recommended) or copy `growthbook.py` into your project

## Quick Usage

```python
import requests
from growthbook import GrowthBook


# We recommend using a db or cache layer in production
apiResp = requests.get("https://cdn.growthbook.io/api/features/MY_API_KEY")
features = apiResp.json()["features"]

# User attributes for targeting and experimentation
attributes = {
  "id": "123",
  "customUserAttribute": "foo"
}

def on_experiment_viewed(experiment, result):
  # Use whatever event tracking system you want
  analytics.track(attributes["id"], "Experiment Viewed", {
    'experimentId': experiment.key,
    'variationId': result.variationId
  })

# Create a GrowthBook instance
gb = GrowthBook(
  attributes = attributes,
  features = features,
  trackingCallback = on_experiment_viewed
)

# Simple on/off feature gating
if gb.isOn("my-feature"):
  print("My feature is on!")

# Get the value of a feature with a fallback
color = gb.getFeatureValue("button-color-feature", "blue")
```

## GrowthBook class

The GrowthBook constructor has the following parameters:

-  **enabled** (`bool`) - Flag to globally disable all experiments. Default true.
-  **attributes** (`dict`) - Dictionary of user attributes that are used for targeting and to assign variations
-  **url** (`str`) - The URL of the current request (if applicable)
-  **features** (`dict`) - Feature definitions from the GrowthBook API
-  **forcedVariations** (`dict`) - Dictionary of forced experiment variations (used for QA)
-  **qaMode** (`boolean`) - If true, random assignment is disabled and only explicitly forced variations are used.
-  **trackingCallback** (`callable`) - A function that takes `experiment` and `result` as arguments.

There are also getter and setter methods for features and attributes if you need to update them later in the request:

```python
gb.setFeatures(gb.getFeatures())
gb.setAttributes(gb.getAttributes())
```

### Features

Defines all of the available features plus rules for how to assign values to users. Features are usually fetched from the GrowthBook API and persisted in cache or a database in production.

Feature definitions are defined in a JSON format. You can fetch them directly from the GrowthBook API:

```python
import requests

apiResp = requests.get("https://cdn.growthbook.io/api/features/MY_API_KEY")
features = apiResp.json()["features"]
```

Or, you can use a copy stored in your database or cache server instead:

```python
import json

json_string = '{"feature-1":{...},"feature-2":{...},...}'
features = json.loads(json_string)
```

We recommend using the db/cache approach for production.

### Attributes

You can specify attributes about the current user and request. These are used for two things:

1.  Feature targeting (e.g. paid users get one value, free users get another)
2.  Assigning persistent variations in A/B tests (e.g. user id "123" always gets variation B)

Attributes can be any JSON data type - boolean, integer, float, string, list, or dict.

```python
attributes = {
  'id': "123",
  'loggedIn': True,
  'age': 21.5,
  'tags': ["tag1", "tag2"],
  'account': {
    'age': 90
  ]
}
```

### Tracking Experiments

Any time an experiment is run to determine the value of a feature, you want to track that event in your analytics system.

You can use the `trackingCallback` option to do this:

```python
from growthbook import GrowthBook, Experiment, Result

def on_experiment_viewed(experiment: Experiment, result: Result):
  # Use whatever event tracking system you want
  analytics.track(attributes["id"], "Experiment Viewed", {
    'experimentId': experiment.key,
    'variationId': result.variationId
  })

gb = GrowthBook(
  trackingCallback = on_experiment_viewed
)
```

## Using Features

There are 3 main methods for interacting with features.

- `gb.isOn("feature-key")` returns true if the feature is on
- `gb.isOff("feature-key")` returns false if the feature is on
- `gb.getFeatureValue("feature-key", "default")` returns the value of the feature with a fallback


In addition, you can use `gb.evalFeature("feature-key")` to get back a `FeatureResult` object with the following properties:

- **value** - The JSON-decoded value of the feature (or `null` if not defined)
- **on** and **off** - The JSON-decoded value cast to booleans
- **source** - Why the value was assigned to the user. One of `unknownFeature`, `defaultValue`, `force`, or `experiment`
- **experiment** - Information about the experiment (if any) which was used to assign the value to the user
- **experimentResult** - The result of the experiment (if any) which was used to assign the value to the user


## Inline Experiments

Instead of declaring all features up-front and referencing them by ids in your code, you can also just run an experiment directly. This is done with the `gb->run` method:

```python
from growthbook import Experiment

exp = Experiment(
  key = "my-experiment", 
  variations = ["red", "blue", "green"]
)

# Either "red", "blue", or "green"
print(gb.run(exp).value)
```

As you can see, there are 2 required parameters for experiments, a string key, and an array of variations.  Variations can be any data type, not just strings.

There are a number of additional settings to control the experiment behavior:

-  **key** (`str`) - The globally unique tracking key for the experiment
-  **variations** (`any[]`) - The different variations to choose between
-  **weights** (`float[]`) - How to weight traffic between variations. Must add to 1.
-  **coverage** (`float`) - What percent of users should be included in the experiment (between 0 and 1, inclusive)
- **condition** (`dict`) - Targeting conditions
-  **force** (`int`) - All users included in the experiment will be forced into the specified variation index
-  **hashAttribute** (`string`) - What user attribute should be used to assign variations (defaults to "id")
-  **namespace** (`tuple[str,float,float]`) - Used to run mutually exclusive experiments.

Here's an example that uses all of them:

```python
exp = Experiment(
  key="my-test",
  # Variations can be a list of any data type
  variations=[0, 1],
  # Run a 40/60 experiment instead of the default even split (50/50)
  weights=[0.4, 0.6],
  # Only include 20% of users in the experiment
  coverage=0.2,
  # Targeting condition using a MongoDB-like syntax
  condition={
    'country': 'US',
    'browser': {
      '$in': ['chrome', 'firefox']
    }
  },
  # Use an alternate attribute for assigning variations (default is 'id')
  hashAttribute="sessionId",
  # Includes the first 50% of users in the "pricing" namespace
  # Another experiment with a non-overlapping range will be mutually exclusive (e.g. [0.5, 1])
  namespace=("pricing", 0, 0.5),
)
```

### Inline Experiment Return Value

A call to `run` returns a `Result` object with a few useful properties:

```python
result = gb.run(exp)

# If user is part of the experiment
print(result.inExperiment) # True or False

# The index of the assigned variation
print(result.variationId) # e.g. 0 or 1

# The value of the assigned variation
print(result.value) # e.g. "A" or "B"

# If the variation was randomly assigned by hashing user attributes
print(result.hashUsed) # True or False

# The user attribute used to assign a variation
print(result.hashAttribute) # "id"

# The value of that attribute
print(result.hashValue) # e.g. "123"
```

The `inExperiment` flag will be false if the user was excluded from being part of the experiment for any reason (e.g. failed targeting conditions).

The `hashUsed` flag will only be true if the user was randomly assigned a variation. If the user was forced into a specific variation instead, this flag will be false.

### Example Experiments

3-way experiment with uneven variation weights:
```python
gb.run(Experiment(
  key = "3-way-uneven",
  variations = ["A","B","C"],
  weights = [0.5, 0.25, 0.25]
))
```

Slow rollout (10% of users who match the targeting condition):
```python
# User is marked as being in "qa" and "beta"
gb = GrowthBook(
  attributes = {
    "id": "123",
    "beta": True,
    "qa": True,
  },
)

gb.run(Experiment(
  key = "slow-rollout",
  variations = ["A", "B"],
  coverage = 0.1,
  condition = {
    'beta': True
  }
))
```

Complex variations
```python
result = gb.run(Experiment(
  key = "complex-variations",
  variations = [
    ("blue", "large"),
    ("green", "small")
  ],
))

# Either "blue,large" OR "green,small"
print(result.value[0] + "," + result.value[1])
```

Assign variations based on something other than user id
```python
gb = GrowthBook(
  attributes = {
    "id": "123",
    "company": "growthbook"
  }
)

# Users in the same company will always get the same variation
gb.run(Experiment(
  key = "by-company-id",
  variations = ["A", "B"],
  hashAttribute = "company"
))
```

### Django

For Django (and other web frameworks), we recommend adding a simple middleware where you instantiate the GrowthBook object

```python
from growthbook import GrowthBook

def growthbook_middleware(get_response):
    def middleware(request):
        request.gb = GrowthBook(
          # ...
        )
        response = get_response(request)

        request.gb.destroy() # Cleanup

        return response
    return middleware
```

Then, you can easily evaluate a feature (or run an inline experiment) in any of your views:

```python
def index(request):
    featureEnabled = request.gb.isOn("my-feature")
    # ...
```
